feat(lib): Add Assistant Button (#3529)
Orange-OpenSource/Orange-Boosted-Bootstrap: site/src/content/docs/components/buttons.mdx

Author: No demo for small size assistant buttons ?

Author: Link isn't the good one, is there any that better fits ?

Reviewer: There is no page yet for the Assistant button

Author: Maybe with a todo in the code then ?

Reviewer: I will add an issue https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/Orange-Boosted-Bootstrap/issues/3734

### Component types

> <ul class="list-unstyled row row-cols-1 sm:row-cols-2 xl:row-cols-3">

Author: Should we adapt in every page to be like this or do you think we should adapt to the context ?

Reviewer: Actually I think you did that modification. 
I tried with md:row-cols-3 and I think it's better throughout, lmk.

      <div class="card-body border-default border-thin border-top"><a class="stretched-link" href="#navigation-button">Navigation button</a> is a UI element that enables movement between different pages within a multi-page interface.</div>
    </div>
  </li>
  <li class="col">
    <div class="card position-relative h-100">
      <div class="card-top bg-secondary">
        <div class="d-flex align-items-center justify-content-center ratio-16x9" inert>

>           <a class="btn btn-assistant" href="#">Default</a>

Author: ```suggestion
          <a class="btn btn-assistant" href="#">Assistant</a>
```

        </div>
      </div>
      <div class="card-body border-default border-thin border-top"><a class="stretched-link" href="#assistant-button">Assistant button</a> is a UI element that triggers an AI-related action or event.</div>
    </div>
  </li>
</ul>

For the three types of button, OUDS Web has a common base `.btn` class that sets up default styles such as padding and content alignment. By default, `.btn` controls have a transparent border and background color, but still defines basic focus and hover styles. The `.btn` class is intended to be used in conjunction with our button variants, or to serve as a basis for your own custom styles. The most basic button is the `.btn-default` variant.

<Example showToolbar={false} code={`<button type="button" class="btn btn-default">Default</button>`} />

<Example showToolbar={false} code={`<button type="button" class="btn btn-next btn-default">Next</button>`} />

> <Example showToolbar={false} code={`<button type="button" class="btn btn-assistant">Default</button>`} />

Author: Or maybe label ?
```suggestion
<Example showToolbar={false} code={`<button type="button" class="btn btn-assistant">Assistant</button>`} />
```

Reviewer: I will put Assistant everywhere to stay in line with the rest of this file but I'm open to using Label

        <circle class="loader-inner" cx="20" cy="20" r="17"></circle>
      </svg>
      <span role="status" id="loading-btn-msg-101" class="visually-hidden">Downloading file 101: xx%</span>
    </button>

    <button type="button" class="btn btn-minimal loading-determinate" id="loading-btn-7" disabled style="--bs-btn-loading-time: 5s;">
      Download file 7
      <svg viewBox='0 0 40 40' xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' class="loader" aria-hidden="true">
        <circle class="loader-inner" cx="20" cy="20" r="17"></circle>
      </svg>
      <span role="status" id="loading-btn-msg-7" class="visually-hidden">Downloading file 7: xx%</span>
    </button>

    <button type="button" class="btn btn-negative loading-determinate" id="loading-btn-8" disabled style="--bs-btn-loading-time: 5s;">
      Download file 8
      <svg viewBox='0 0 40 40' xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' class="loader" aria-hidden="true">
        <circle class="loader-inner" cx="20" cy="20" r="17"></circle>
      </svg>
      <span role="status" id="loading-btn-msg-8" class="visually-hidden">Downloading file 8: xx%</span>
    </button>

> 

Author: Think we can remove them `</button></div>`

Reviewer: I do not get this comment

<SkeletonRedirect component="button" />

<Example buttonLabel="button skeleton" code={`<div aria-busy="true" inert>

    <button type="button" class="btn btn-default">Default</button>

> 

Author: Same when there is only one

Reviewer: Ah ok I see, I'm not sure I agree because we need to have an absolute rule otherwise we will always hesitate... (my rule being: always put space before and after a component code)
We can discuss with the others

Author: Yep we should definitely talk about it with the others, I'm curious about their answers, but as you explain it, it looks fine

</Callout>

AI button is a UI element that enables AI use in an interface. AI buttons are typically used to open a chatbot or trigger AI-powered actions.

You can use `.btn-ai` class to indicate AI actions in a process or a flow. This class will add an icon before the button text. As AI buttons generally indicate an AI-related action, in our examples, we have used `<button>` elements, but this could be adapted to your own context (in that case, don't forget to add an `href` attribute to make the element focusable). The visual rendering will remain the same anyway:

<Example buttonLabel="basic AI buttons" class="bd-btn-example" code={`<a class="btn btn-default btn-ai" href="#">Default</a>
  <button type="button" class="btn btn-default btn-ai">Default</button>`} />

### Variants

{/* TODO: Update link */}
OUDS Web includes several AI button variants, each serving its own semantic purpose. Please follow the [AI button design specifications](https://r.orange.fr/r/S-ouds-doc-button) to choose the right button variant for the right action.

<BrandSpecific brand={['orange', 'orange-compact']}>
<Callout type="warning" title="Colored icon">

>   Be aware that `.btn-strong` and `.btn-minimal` variants should use a colored icon to indicate the AI action. It will be automatically replaced when not present or when needed.

Reviewer: Is that it?
```suggestion
  Be aware that `.btn-strong` and `.btn-minimal` variants should use a colored icon to indicate the AI action. If omitted, the default AI icon will be displayed.
```

    Default
  </button>
  <button class="btn btn-strong btn-ai">
    <svg aria-hidden="true" class="btn-ai-colored-icon">
      <use xlink:href="${getVersionedDocsPath('/assets/img/ouds-web-sprite.svg#sparkles-colored')}"/>
    </svg>
    Strong
  </button>
  <button class="btn btn-brand btn-ai">
    Brand
  </button>
  <button class="btn btn-minimal btn-ai">
    <svg aria-hidden="true" class="btn-ai-colored-icon">
      <use xlink:href="${getVersionedDocsPath('/assets/img/ouds-web-sprite.svg#sparkles-colored')}"/>
    </svg>
    Minimal
  </button>
  <button class="btn btn-negative btn-ai">
    Negative
  </button>`} />
</BrandSpecific>

<BrandSpecific brand={['sosh']}>
<Example buttonLabel="AI button variants" class="bd-btn-example" code={`<button class="btn btn-default btn-ai">
    Default
  </button>
  <button class="btn btn-strong btn-ai">
    Strong
  </button>
  <button class="btn btn-brand btn-ai">
    Brand
  </button>
  <button class="btn btn-minimal btn-ai">
    Minimal
  </button>
  <button class="btn btn-negative btn-ai">
    Negative
  </button>`} />
</BrandSpecific>

<Callout type="info">

>   `.btn-default` isn't transparent here, and you might specify `--bs-btn-bg` to make it transparent if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Due to technical limitations, an AI button with`.btn-default` does not have a transparent background. To simulate transparency, set `--bs-btn-bg` to its container background color.
```

</Callout>

<Example buttonLabel="AI button variants" class="bd-btn-example" code={`<div class="bg-surface-secondary">
    <button class="btn btn-default btn-ai">
      Default
    </button>
    <button class="btn btn-default btn-ai" style="--bs-btn-bg: var(--bs-color-bg-secondary);">
      Default
    </button>
  </div>`} />

#### Icon only

Add the class `.btn-icon` to get a squared button that only contains an icon. Make sure to provide an accessible name to your button, either using a `.visually-hidden` content or an `aria-label` attribute.

<BrandSpecific brand={['orange', 'orange-compact']}>
<Callout type="warning" title="Colored icon">

>   Be aware that `.btn-strong` and `.btn-minimal` variants should use a colored icon to indicate the AI action. It will be automatically replaced when not present or when needed.

Reviewer: Is that it?
```suggestion
  Be aware that `.btn-strong` and `.btn-minimal` variants should use a colored icon to indicate the AI action. If omitted, the default AI icon will be displayed.
```

  </button>
  <button class="btn btn-brand btn-icon btn-ai"><span class="visually-hidden">Brand</span></button>
  <button class="btn btn-minimal btn-icon btn-ai">
    <svg aria-hidden="true" class="btn-ai-colored-icon">
      <use xlink:href="${getVersionedDocsPath('/assets/img/ouds-web-sprite.svg#sparkles-colored')}"/>
    </svg>
    <span class="visually-hidden">Minimal</span>
  </button>
  <button class="btn btn-negative btn-icon btn-ai"><span class="visually-hidden">Negative</span></button>`} />
</BrandSpecific>

<BrandSpecific brand={['sosh']}>
<Example buttonLabel="icon only AI buttons" class="bd-btn-example" code={`<button class="btn btn-default btn-icon btn-ai"><span class="visually-hidden">Default</span></button>
  <button class="btn btn-strong btn-icon btn-ai"><span class="visually-hidden">Strong</span></button>
  <button class="btn btn-brand btn-icon btn-ai"><span class="visually-hidden">Brand</span></button>
  <button class="btn btn-minimal btn-icon btn-ai"><span class="visually-hidden">Minimal</span></button>
  <button class="btn btn-negative btn-icon btn-ai"><span class="visually-hidden">Negative</span></button>`} />
</BrandSpecific>

<Callout type="info">

>   `.btn-default` isn't transparent here, and you might specify `--bs-btn-bg` to make it transparent if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Due to technical limitations, an AI button with`.btn-default` does not have a transparent background. To simulate transparency, set `--bs-btn-bg` to its container background color.
```

    </button>
    <button class="btn btn-default btn-ai btn-icon" style="--bs-btn-bg: var(--bs-color-bg-secondary);">
      <span class="visually-hidden">Default</span>
    </button>
  </div>`} />

<BrandSpecific brand={['orange', 'orange-compact']}>
  #### Rounded corners

  Rounded corners AI buttons is a project-wide option therefore all your buttons should either be rounded or not. Add `.use-rounded-corner-buttons` on a top container (for example `<body>`) to use rounded corners.

<Callout type="warning">
  Rounded corners could be used in more emotional, immersive contexts or those tied to specific visual identities. **For standard or business-oriented usage, keep the default square corners.**
</Callout>

<Callout type="info">
  We use a `<div>` as a parent container because we cannot use `<body>` in an example.
</Callout>

<Example buttonLabel="rounded AI buttons" class="bd-btn-example" code={`<div class="use-rounded-corner-buttons">
    <button class="btn btn-ai btn-default">Default</button>
    <button class="btn btn-ai btn-icon btn-default"><span class="visually-hidden">Default</span></button>
  </div>`} />
</BrandSpecific>

### States

#### Disabled

> AI buttons use a `<button>` element, simply add the `disabled` boolean attribute to it. Disabled AI buttons have `pointer-events: none` applied to, preventing hover and active states from triggering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AI buttons typically use the `<button>` element. To disable an AI button, add the `disabled` boolean attribute. Disabled AI buttons have `pointer-events: none` applied to, preventing hover and active states from triggering.
```

<Example buttonLabel="Assistant button icon-only" class="bd-btn-example" code={`<button class="btn btn-assistant btn-icon">
    <span class="visually-hidden">Default</span>
  </button>`} />

<BrandSpecific brand={['orange', 'orange-compact']}>
  #### Rounded corners

  Rounded corners Assistant buttons is a project-wide option therefore all your buttons should either be rounded or not. Add `.use-rounded-corner-buttons` on a top container (for example `<body>`) to use rounded corners.

<Callout type="warning">
  Rounded corners could be used in more emotional, immersive contexts or those tied to specific visual identities. **For standard or business-oriented usage, keep the default square corners.**
</Callout>

<Callout type="info">
  We use a `<div>` as a parent container because we cannot use `<body>` in an example.
</Callout>

<Example buttonLabel="rounded Assistant buttons" class="bd-btn-example" code={`<div class="use-rounded-corner-buttons">

    <button class="btn btn-assistant">Default</button>

  </div>`} />
</BrandSpecific>

### States

#### Disabled

> Assistant buttons typically use the `<button>` element. To disable an Assistant button, add the `[disabled]` boolean attribute. Disabled Assistant buttons have `pointer-events: none` applied to, preventing hover and active states from triggering.

Author: I don't know what's best
```suggestion
Assistant buttons typically use the `<button>` element. To disable an Assistant button, add the `:disabled` state. Disabled Assistant buttons have `pointer-events: none` applied to, preventing hover and active states from triggering.
```

Reviewer: We are talking about the DOM here so I would keep `[disabled]`

  </button>`} />

## [[comp]] Assistant button

An assistant button is a UI element that triggers an action or event featuring AI-powered capabilities, such as conversational assistance, content generation, or contextual suggestions.

The assistant button combines standard button functions with AI-specific visual features to clearly indicate actions enhanced or powered by artificial intelligence.

You can use `.btn-assistant` class to indicate AI actions in a process or a flow. This class will add an icon before the button text and a specific border color. As Assistant buttons generally indicate an AI-related action, in our examples, we have used `<button>` elements, but this could be adapted to your own context (in that case, don't forget to add an `href` attribute to make the element focusable). The visual rendering will remain the same anyway:

<Example buttonLabel="basic assistant buttons" class="bd-btn-example" code={`<a class="btn btn-assistant" href="#">Assistant</a>

  <button type="button" class="btn btn-assistant">Assistant</button>`} />

<Callout type="warning" title="Transparency and older browsers">

>   Due to technical limitations, an assistant button does not have a transparent background on older browsers and Firefox.

Reviewer 2: Could be interesting for developer to explicitely tell that the browser compatibility is linked to `background-clip: border-area`, potentially with the direct link to caniuse (https://caniuse.com/wf-background-clip-border-area) so they can check the compat by themselves ?

  It's necessary to set `--bs-btn-bg` to its container background color to be compatible with most browsers. Make sure that the used variable isn't semi-transparent (ie. use background tokens instead of surface tokens).
</Callout>

If your browser is compatible, the following example will show two transparent assistant buttons on a tertiary background. If not, only one non-transparent and one transparent button.

<Example buttonLabel="assistant button simulated transparent background" class="bd-btn-example" code={`<div class="bg-tertiary">

>     <button class="btn btn-assistant">

Reviewer 2: in other `button` example we set the `type="button"` but it is not done for the Assistant button. Is it because we assume that they will be submit button or is it just an omission.

      Assistant
    </button>

    <button class="btn btn-assistant" style="--bs-btn-bg: var(--bs-color-bg-tertiary);">
      Assistant
    </button>

  </div>`} />

### Variants

#### Icon only

> Add the class `.btn-icon` to get a icon-only assistant button. Make sure to provide an accessible name to your button, either using a `.visually-hidden` content or an `aria-label` attribute. Icon-only assistant buttons are always completely circular.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add the class `.btn-icon` to get an icon-only assistant button. Make sure to provide an accessible name to your button, either using a `.visually-hidden` content or an `aria-label` attribute. Icon-only assistant buttons are always completely circular.
```
